# Chessculator
#### Video Demo:  <URL HERE>
#### Description: Score calculator for the game of Chess created as a final project to Harvards CS50x course

This mobile application, created in React-Native, is a project that I have chosen to name "Chessculator", a fusion of the name of the classic board game "Chess" and the word "Calculator". The name should give a general explanation of what this project might be, it is a digital tool to be used with the physical board game of Chess. The purpose of this application is to calculate the score between the two players in a game of Chess, by choosing the pieces taken by each player in the game the application will represent those pieces on the screen and properly calculate the score according to the classic scoring system of Chess.

The design of the application was planned in Figma prior to beginning the coding of the actual UI and functionality, however some decisions and changes of heart were made later concerning for example colors used, a darker red seemed more appropriate for a "Reset" button than a lighter blue and seemed personally to me to aesthetically fit better with the other colors, some background color and padding seemed appropriate for the Chess pieces on the board to perhaps more easily show that they were in fact pressable and removable from the board halves.

The main file of this project is `App.js` which is where most of the functionality of the application is located. In the beginning of the component function is the declaration and instantiation of the state variables and the constant variables. The `takenPieces` array state variable holds objects of the pieces that have been "taken" by each player, `whiteScore` and `blackScore` keep track of each players current score, `winner` contains a string of the winner if one is available (by checkmate) otherwise the string is empty. The constant variables contain the value of some often repeated values like the size of the icons, the white and black colors and the name of the different Chess pieces. The different functions in this file are used to "take" pieces when a player presses on a Chess piece in their respective "bottom tabs" of Chess pieces, to remove pieces when they are pressed on on the board halves, to calculate and display the score and to reset the score via the reset button in the middle of the screen between the two board halves. This main component in the project is used to display and weave together the project as a whole by rendering the components to be mentioned below inside of some `View` components acting as containers with styling added to them.

The `scoreText.js` file returns a component containing only a `Text` element containing the text displaying the current score, based on a ternary operator it will display a text of the winning side/color to both players if the opponents king has been taken, otherwise it will default to displaying each sides currently scored points by number. The component receives multiple props from the parent to distinguish which sides score should be displayed and the style of the text based on given color, what text should be displayed depending on if there is a winner (checkmate) or not.

The `button.js` file returns a component containing a `Pressable` element which in turn contains a `Text` element. The component simply returns a button with an onPress function and text value given down as props from the parent.

The `chessPiece.js` file returns a component containing a Chess piece icon by Material Community Icons wrapped in a `Pressable` element. The component receives a couple of props from the parent to manipulate behaviors such as the functionality of onPress, which Chess piece icon to display based on the name prop, the color of the piece and state of disabled based on if there is a winner or not, in case there is, the ability to select further Chess pieces to "take" should be disabled.